US President joee Biden says the US
commitment to Israel is Ironclad in the
face of Iranian threats the security
Assurance comes as the US and allies
fear Iran or its proxies could launch a
significant attack within days Tyran has
vowed to retaliate for a suspected
Israeli strike on the Iranian Consulate
in Syria at the start of April that
killed seven members of its
revolutionary guard Iran's supreme
leader ayoli Ki renewed the threat on
Wednesday here's how President Biden
responded we also want to address the
Iranian threat to launch a sign they're
threatening to launch a significant
attack on Israel as I told prime
minister
Netanyahu our commitment to Israel's
security against these threats from Iran
and his proxies is Ironclad let me say
it again Ironclad we're going to do all
we can to protect Israel's security
let's talk now to military analysts
Marina Moran from King know she joins us
now from Munich greetings Marina let's
start with President Biden's statement
the way you see it what does ironclad
mean and what does it
entail good day well what President
Biden could mean is that the support for
Israel will be then unconditional and we
have seen a lot of criticism coming from
the US side as far as the war against
Hamas is being concerned however in this
scenario if Iran specifically from its
own territory were to launch an attack
against Israel proper than the United
States would stand behind Israel and I
do not exclude the possibility of
deploying more aircraft carriers and US
strike groups um to support Israel I
don't think that the US would
essentially send any of its troops um to
Israel in order to support Israel but I
think when it comes to military aid um
the focus will be on Israel sidelining
thereby Taiwan and
Ukraine Iran's supreme leader vowed to
retaliate for the attack on the Damascus
consulate is Iran likely to do so from
Iranian soil or through the so-called
axis of
resistance I think for Iran right now
and giving Iran's past and how it
responded to the assassination of KM
solmani I doubt that Iran at this stage
is ready to launch an attack from its
own territory on Israel I think
strategically it would be unwise for
Iran however given that Iran has
received an as a big slap they are not
in a position not to respond which puts
Iran here in a very difficult spot and
therefore I think that the next best
option is to use the axis of resistance
consisting of um militias in Iraq in
Syria of houis in Yemen and Hezbollah in
southern Lebanon in order to attack
Israel and make it more difficult for
Israel to conduct its war against Hamas
and Israel is already having
difficulties because of international
pressure to do so so I think that the
attack will be asymmetric and another
possibility is that it will not be an
attack on Israel proper or not only
there might be attack on Israeli
embassies across the Middle East as well
as attacks um in the Cyber realm and
psychological
[Music]
operations that's a military analyst
Marina Moran of King's College as ever
many thanks
Marina F Jes is Professor of
international relations at the London
School of Economics F Jes I suppose
Biden's statement is a good place to
start what's your assessment of what
Ironclad means and what does that
entail well he used the the term Iron
clap twice so the president's statement
is really a message of deterrence to
Iran uh not just President Biden but
even the Secretary of State uh blinkin
called the Israeli defense minister and
reassured uh the Israeli defense
minister that the US will stand with
Israel um also the US defense secretary
there is even Israel we have have a news
now that Israeli leaders uh have asked
their American counterparts to make
public statements in order to deter Iran
from retaliating for the Israeli attack
on the uh Iranian Consulate in Syria
last week which as you said killed seven
senior uh Iranian commanders um I I I my
take on it is that Iran will retaliate
the question is not whether Iran will do
so or not the question is how uh when
and what targets that Iran uh will
attack in the next few hours or next few
days we'll get to that in just a moment
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said
today that Israel is preparing also for
scenarios of challenges from other
Arenas as he put it what does he mean by
that well I mean I think uh what you
have now is that you have the war in
Gaza but the war has expanded contrary
to what the American strategy the
American strategy from day one from the
7th of October after Hamas attacked
Israel was that it does not really want
the war to expand it has expanded to
Yemen the
red um in Iraq in Syria uh so um what
what you and I we have not mentioned uh
is that uh by attacking uh Iranian
sovereignty uh the Iranian leadership
viewed Israel's attack on the Iranian
Consulate in Syria as an attack on
Iranian sovereignty a direct attack on
Iran it was really a provocation uh it
was designed to provoke Iran to
retaliate and now if Iran does not
retaliate it will stand humiliated and
shown by Israel to be a payot taget so
the question facing the Iranian
leadership is how to retaliate without
provoking all out War with Israel and
the United States because Iran does not
really want a direct War either with
Israel or with the United States as a
result of that provocation as you put it
Iran supreme leader has vowed to
retaliate for the attack on the Damascus
Embassy is Iran likely to do so from
Iranian soil or through the so-called
axis of
resistance well this is really the big
question it's the $1 million question um
my take is that reading uh Iranian
statements and listening to what Iranian
leaders have said they basically keep
talking about the access of resistance
Iran's Regional local networks in
Lebanon in Yemen in Iraq and what have
you so this might imply that Iran could
use its own networks of supporters to
retaliate but my take on it based on
what the Americans say is that Iran is
preparing for a significant attack that
means Iran will directly attack Ira
Israel because the Iranian supreme
leader twice said that that Israel's
attack on the Iranian Council culate was
a direct attack on Iran itself what
translate let's translate what the
supreme leader Ali says that since
Israel attacked Iran's sovereignty we
have to retaliate directly from Iran
this where the danger Li
and what the Americans you started
asking me what the Americans have been
trying to do the Americans do not really
want a regional war allout war so what
the Americans are trying to do is to try
to deter the Iranians and prevent a
significant attack by Iran on Israel
we're gonna have to end it there that's
Middle East analyst FZ many many thanks
to you
sir thank
you